1. Ejiogbe speaks of light. good general welfare, victory over enemies, spiritual awakenings, long life, and peace of mind.
2. Oyeku meji signifies darkness and unhappiness and warns of death, sickness, worries, and a bad omen, yet also carries with it the solution to all these problems.
3. Iwori meji speaks of people gifted with the ability to see things in their true perspective. They dream often, have clear vision, and grow up to become diviners or spiritualists. Clients for who this odu is divined should be advised to worship Ifa. This will bring them good prospects: long life (ireaiku), wealth (ire aje), a wife (ire aya), and children (ire omo).
4. Idi meji speaks of people who have secret enemies trying to cast a spellover them or who have bad dreams most of the time. They need to appease Ifa in order to overcome these worldly obstructions.
5. Irosu meji speaks of people who are always popular and held in high regard by their friends. They need to take care of their health both by propitiating their heads (ori) and by occasionally appeasing the osu, or Ifa staff of office. I they feel despondent and begin to lose interest in whatever they are doing, Ifa should be consulted and appeased for them. Irosu meji denotes emotional and financial difficulties. But no matter how hard life may seem, the client may prevail by offering the right sacrifices, and by refusing to harbor evil thoughts or ideas.
6. Owonrin meji calls for moderation in all things. It predicts two major blessings for someone who is poverty-stricken, provided he or she offers the right sacrifice. The person will be blessed with money and a spouse at the same time. Ifa in Owonrin meji stresses the importance of sacrifice. When a sacrifice is offered, it must not be intended only for the orisas or the ancestors but should be used to feed the mouths of several people. This is a way to make sacrifices acceptable.
7. Obara meji denotes being in a state of uncertainty or suspense, unable tomake decisions. Children of Obarameji have a tendency to buy on impulse andoften become victims of wishful thinking. They regret most of the decisionsthey make in a nervous haste. To prosper in life, the children of Obarameji will need to propitiate their heads (ori) from time to time.
8. Okanran meji signifies problems, court cases, suffering, and evil vibrations. Children of Okanranmeji will always hit the nail on the head by doing or saying what is exactly right. People often think that Okanranmeji's children are aggressive and domineering because they try to prevail despite all odds. In most situations they will rebel against the conventions of society and consequently create problems for themselves. Prone to infections, the children of Okanranmeji must take care of their health in order not to become chronically ill.
9. Ogunda meji warns people of fighting, disputes, and imminent hostility. During a divination session, if Ogundameji appears for a person, he or she will, be advised to watch out for traitors or deceitful friends. Ifa says the person must have reposed confidence in someone unworthy of the trust. If a client is battling with financial problems and opposition from enemies, Ogundameji says that he or she should offer the right sacrifice to Ogun and also propitiate his or her head (ori) in order to succeed and prosper.
10. Osa meji is an odu that implies lack of courage and running away from a fight or opposition. Children of Osameji do a great deal of traveling, either for business or pleasure. They grow up to become good managers if they run other people's businesses. Because they are easily frightened, they will not take risks.
11. Ika meji signifies many worries and therefore calls for restraints. Withthe right sacrifice it is possible to exercise control. Ikameji's children arealways surrounded by people who are disposed to inflict pain on others ordelight in another's suffering. They constantly have to be on their guard because they cannot count on family and friends for help.
12. Oturuponmeji speaks of endurance. Children of this Odu are rugged and tough and will show dogged determination inspite of rough treatment.
13. Oturameji implies peace of mind and freedom from all anxiety. Children of Oturameji are gentle and mild in character.
14. Iretemeji says it pays to stoop to conquer. Humility is a very important virtue. This odu warns against intrigues from enemies who are trying to makeshort work of our chances for success in life.
15. Osemeji implies victory over enemies and control over difficulties.
16. Ofunmeji signifies good monetary fortune. It calls for patience and compromise in a life of give and take. With the right sacrifices, success isguaranteed.
17. Ogbe'Yeku we are advised to use intelligence rather than force or confrontation to overcome obstacles or enemies. No matter how important someone is. he or she needs to obtain and follow he babalawo's advice. Unwavering belief in Ifa will alway s reward the believer.
18. Oyeku'Logbe suggests that the client will encounter a conflict. Rather than become involved, the client should be a mediator. In so doing, he or she will profit. Oyekulogbe also warns us to be careful of friends who could cause the destruction of the household.
19. Ogbe'Wehin speaks of emotional confusion. It also ensures successful conclusions. It tells us to rely on previous experience.
20. Iwori'Ogbe speaks primarily of children and encourages a positive social atmosphere for maintaining the well-being of the family. Western observation: The client is too serious and needs to play have some silly, childlike fun to restore balance.
21. Ogbedi speaks of the necessity of performing the correct sacrifice in order to avoid embarrassment or ridicule. Western observation: The client is feeling or is afraid of some emotional pressure. Practical possibilities cannot be realized until this pressure is relieved. The pressure often comes from relationship issues.
22. Idi'Gbe speaks of present or imminent trouble and provides the sacrifice necessary to overcome it. Western Observation: Temporal fears, often job related or monetary, must be dealt with. Often, emotional relationships are causing unrest and imbalance.
23. Ogbe'Rosu provides the solutions to the threat of death, disease, courtcases, losses, and infertility.
24. Irosu'Ogbe emphasizes personal spiritual relationships as opposed to monetary or commercial ones. Western observation: Emotions take precedence while business grinds slowly forward.
25. Ogbe'Wonri speaks of the choice between potential husbands or wives. Sacrifice assures the correct choice and a successful partnership. Western observation: A great time to capitalize, both in business and emotionally, onthe client's attractiveness to others.
26. Owonrin'Sobge speaks of witchcraft or negative vibrations interfering with the client's peace of mind.
27. Ogbe'Bara speaks of illness such as seasonal allergies. Western observation: The client has been pushing himself or herself too hard at work.
28. Obara'Bogbe speaks of great respect and power for the client who faithfully follows Ifa's forecast. Western observation: The client's general skepticism is blocking progress.
29. Ogbe'Kanran speaks of eventual loss of previous gains because of failure to fulfill an entire sacrifice. Half-measures will always result in losses. Western observation: The client is in too much of a hurry; he or sheneeds to go more slowly and carefully.
30. Okanran'Sode speaks of overcoming our enemies or competitors to achieve a position of prominence. Western observation: A new job, promotion, or raise is in the offing.
31. Ogbe'Gunda speaks of imminent monetary or material success. Western observation: A business opportunity will present itself. At first the client will dismiss it as not worthwhile. Serious consideration of the opportunity will lead to great success . 
32. Ogunda'Bede emphasizes the necessity for honesty and integrity.
33. Ogbesa speaks of deceit from friends and the necessity of finishing whatever one begins. Western observation: It's rough going now, but if you donot give up or give in, you will triumph in the end.
34. Osa'Gbe speaks of the necessity for taking time and using spiritual insight to appreciate the joys of life. Western observation: The client is risking everything by being overly temporal and losing spiritual balance.
35. Ogbeka speaks of having to overcome jealousy and envy in order to, achieve fame and respect.
36. Ika'Gbe speaks of having to stand up for our rights and demand respect. Western observation: The client must learn to temper his or her words andactions when presenting a point of view.
37. Ogbe'Turupon speaks of the client falling behind in a competitive situation. Ge or she can win through sacrifice.
38. Oturupon'Gbe speaks of upcoming trouble or unrest in the home caused by the children.
39. Ogbe'Tura speaks of sacrifice guaranteeing peace and happiness.
40. Otura'Oriko speaks of the client lacking self confidence because he or she has suffered losses.
41. Ogbe'Ate speaks of avoiding problems and creating potential in upcoming trips and endeavors. Western observation: The client faces potential loss of a job or relationship.
42. Irete'Ogbe speaks of prosperity, happiness, and sexual fulfillment.
43. Ogbe'Se speaks of good news and achievements that call for celebration. Western observation: The client can expect positive changes in his or her emotional relationship.
44. Oso'Ogbe warns of association with evil people. Previous suffering will be replaced with prosperity.
45. Ogbe'Fun speaks of chiming instruments scaring away death or evil spirits. Western observation: Nonmonogamous behavior can cause great harm.
46. Ofun'Gbe speaks of a powerful enemy. A fight or trouble is imminent. Western observation: The client is often faced with legal and/or governmental conflict.
47. Oyeku'Bi'Worilodo offers solutions for barrenness and impotence.
48. Iwori'Yeku speaks of impending dangers and how to avoid or minimize the consequences. Western observation: Emotional blockage needs to be eliminated through ancestor worship or offerings.
49. In good fortune, Odu Oyekif'oworadi speaks of personal and financial success with women. But in bad fortune, it calls for sacrifice to avoid death. Western observation: Too much emphasis on sexual activity threatens the client's well being.
50. Idi'Yeku in good fortune speaks of financial success through propitiation of the ori (head). In bad fortune, it specifies sacrifice to avoid death. Western observation: It is necessary to communicate with ancestors to relieve business or everyday pressures.
51. Oyeku'Rosu speaks of the importance of obeying Ifa to avoid success and avoid death. Western observation: Good thinking must translate to good actions to avoid problems.
52. Irosu'Takeleku speaks of envy and seduction, and calls for sacrifices to avoid dire consequences. Western observation: A change of jobs will bring improvement.
53. Oyeku'Wonrin offers remedies for possible dire consequences of adultery and perils of distant travel.
54. Owonrin'Yeku speaks of the need for caution in our activities.
55. Oyeku'Bara calls for sacrifices to avoid the consequences of day-to-day activities.
56. Obara'Yeku warns of insubordination at home and at work. Western Observation: The client is faced with a more dominant partner.
57. Oyeku'Pelekan speaks of how sacrifice can protect us from the evil intentions of others and from the loss of prestige. Western observation: The client is stubborn and refuses wise advice.
58. Okanran'Yeku speaks of sacrifice providing riches and failure to sacrifice bringing destruction. Western observation: The client enjoys taking risks or walking the edge and should work with his or her ancestors to avoid pitfalls.
59. Oyeku'Eguntan offers protection against imminent death. Western observation: A job or relationship is in danger of ending because of emotional battles.
60. Ogunda'Yeku speaks of kindness and generosity bringing comfort, growth,and prosperity. Western observation: Strong ancestral support provides an end to difficulties.
61. Oyeku'Gasa suggests compromise to avoid total loss. Western observation: Oyeku Gasa often denotes partnership or relationship conflict.
62. Osa'Yeku speaks of sacrifice to assure longevity and to avoid upcoming turbulence. Western observation: Lawsuits or job uncertainty combine with emotional blockage to create a chaotic situation.
63. Oyekubeka speaks of the necessity of the babalawos sharing their sacrifices with Esu and the others. Sacrifice guarantees safety. Western observation: The client needs more emphasis on his or her spiritual nature andless on money or things.
64. Ika'Yeku offers a solution for male sterility and calls for more assertiveness in the client's nature. Western observation: A relationship is ending or has ended. It can be restored.
65. Oyeku'Batutu offers avoidance of punishment for wrong doing but insists on moral behavior in the future. Western observation: The client faces legal problems, often with the government.
66. Oturopon'Yeku speaks of a client who has sacrificed joy in his or her quest for money. Western observation: Fixation on business results in family estrangement.
67. Oyeku'Batuye speaks of removing blame and restoring freedom of activities. Western observation: Legal issues are resolved and social enjoyment ensues.
68. Otura'Aiku warns us to resist the temptation of entering into a disruptive relationship. Western observation: Seemingly attractive opportunities should be avoided.
69. Oyeku'Irete offers a solution for disease. Western observation: The client is or will be ill.
70. Irete'Yeku calls for initiation and stringent moral behavior.
71. Oyeku'Ise explains the necessity of death as part of the natural order. Western observation: The client is resisting accepting the ending of a relationship or business.
72. Ose'Yeku offers prosperity and popularity.
73. Oyeku'Fu warns of an imminent illness and offers protection from it. Western observation: The client faces an unexpected obstacle in everyday business life.
74. Ofun'Yeku assures longevity, respect, and good relationships withproper sacrifice and behavior.
75. Iwori'Wodi establishes the Ifa concept of rebirth and immortality. Western observation: The client needs children to reach a spiritual equilibrium.
76. Idi'Wori speaks of the necessity of developing our intellect and warns against associating with wrongdoers.
77. Iwori'Rosu speaks of the necessity for patience to achieve solutionsand goals. Western observation: The client is usually stuck, unable to go forward in life.
78. Irosu'Wori speaks of there being no joy, peace, or genuine gain from wrongdoing. Difficulties and change are part of growth and wisdom. Western observation: The client needs to focus on long-term goals and desires rather than on short-term gratification.
79. Iwori'Wonrin speaks of protection from natural disaster and recovery from whatever is lost. Western observation: An old relationship may be rekindled.
80. Owonrin'Wori speaks of hard work as the medicine that cures poverty. It also offers remedies for emotional illness.
81. Iwori'Bara insists on good behavior and offers solutions for rearing responsible children. Western observation: The client's focus should be on practical matters.
82. Obara'Wori establishes the concept of money being important, but never as important as wisdom, knowledge, health, and good character. Western observation: The client needs to place more emphasis on spiritual developmentand emotional balance.
83. Iwori-Okanran establishes the need for privacy between babalawo and client. It stresses the importance of planning ahead. Western observation: The client is not being truthful with the babalawo.
84. Okanran-Iwori advises the client to share his or her problems with others. It also speaks of an impending visitor. Western observation: Fears and an inability to share them are blocking the client's path.
85. Iwori-Eguntan speaks of timely action as critical for a positive change in fortune. Western observation: The client's inability to pull the trigger is causing him or her to lose the way.
86. Ogunda'Wori speaks of emotional and mental illness caused by evil spirits. Western observation: The client needs spiritual cleansing.
87. Iwori'Osa speaks of the necessity of taking responsibility for our activities. Western observation: The client has the knowledge or ability to solve his or her problem but refuses to see or use it.
88. Osa'Wori speaks of exceptional good fortune. It also explains the vulture's sacred position in Ifa. Western observation: The client will find material success though spiritual action.
89. Iwori'Oka warns against stealing and violence. Western observation: The client's focus is monetary at a time when relationships or levels of a current relationship offer greater opportunity.
90. Ika'Wori warns of repercussions from evil actions. It also speaks of protecting one's household from the spread of disease. Western observation: The clients temporal path is blocked by anger.
91. Iwori'Turupon speaks of successful pregnancy and turning bad situations into success through sacrifice.
92. Oturupon'Wori speaks of death resulting from failure to perform the prescribed sacrifice.
93. Iwori'Wotura speaks of family disharmony. Western observation: The clients are having problems with their children, whether they realize it ornot.
94. Otura'Wori speaks of not acting impetuously, as all good things are on the way. Western observation: The client should not accept the first offer.
95. Iwori'Ate speaks of initiation into Ifa as a way of improving life. Western observation: The client should seriously consider initiation.
96. Irete'Wori warns of intrigues and speaks of practicing Ifa for a prosperous life. Western observation: Patience rather than anger or frustration will produce material success.
97. Iwori'Ose speaks of turning adversity into success.
98. Ose'Wori speaks of power and greatness but warns that misuse of them can destroy home or family. Western observation: Too much time and emphasis on work is threatening the client's relationship and family.
99. Iwori'Ofun speaks of improving business and success. Western observation: The client's monetary or business worries will soon dissipate.
100. Ofun'Wori explains that the proper use of money assures fulfillment in life. Western observation: Monetary issues may cause an emotional argument.
101. Idi'Rosu warns of an illness in the waist or buttock area. It also predicts an increase in business. Western observation: Female client will often be encountering menstrual or uterine difficulties.
102. Irosu'Di speaks of a person who has a talent for healing, and offers solutions for conception. Western observation: The client should consider a different career.
103. Idi'Owonrin speaks of upcoming recognition and the importance of a clients career. Western observation: The client is feeling pressure at work.
104. Owonrin'Di speaks of generosity and honesty as the secrets for success and love.
105. Idi'Bara speaks of the necessity of removing obstacles and misunderstandings through sacrifice. Western observation: The client faces relationship trouble. Compromise is necessary to save it.
106. Obara'Di warns of losing our independence and integrity. Western observation: The client's relationship is becoming unbalanced by a demanding partner.
107. Idi'Okanran warns that anyone performing dishonest acts will surely be caught and punished.
108. Okanran'Di speaks of a relationship that will eventually turn out well. Western observation: A previous partnership or relationship is rekindled.
109. Idi'Ogundaa speaks of wisdom and character needed to balance physical force. Western observation: Sexual promiscuity leads to disaster.
110. Ogunda'Di speaks of a successful journey but warns of possible intestinal discomfort.
111. Idi'Sa speaks of restlessness and a desire to avoid responsibility.
112. Osa'Di speaks of removing blockage to obtain a successful relationship.
113. Idi'Ka warns of sever punishment for bad deeds. Western observation: The client faces potential betrayal of business or personal secrets.
114. Ika'Di speaks of showing respect to avoid problems in life. Western observation: The client's lack of spirituality is blocking temporal activities.
115. Idi'Oturupon speaks of solutions for medical problems that prevent pregnancy. Western observation: The client may experience an emotional or spiritual awakening.
116. Oturupon'Di speaks of a person who is spiritually adrift and in need of personal spiritual renewal.
117. Idi'Otura speaks of dietary restrictions for health and sacrifice for family harmony.
118. Oyura'Di speaks of a child succeeding his father and a relationship with a dominant partner.
119. Idi'Irete speaks of the necessity for hard work to reach an elevated position. Western observation: The client is poised for a promotion or new job, but fear could block the event.
120. Irete'Di speaks of resistance to, but the necessity for change. Western observation: The client needs to reappraise a relationship that is no longer working.
121. Idi'Ose speaks of potential problems from microscopic organisms.
122. Ose'Di warns against being too kind, lest a defeated enemy return. Western observation: The client faces a conflict in which he or she must behave aggressively.
123. Idi'Ofun speaks of removing blockage and of unexpected travel. Western observation: The client's business life is going badly; a new course of action is indicated.
124. Ofun'Di warns against greed and selfishness. Western observation: The client is too focused on business; this results in relationship difficulties.
125. Irosu'Wonrin warns that to enjoy upcoming prosperity, we must retain peace and harmony. Western observation: Upcoming success can cause family orpartnership problems.
126. Owonrin'Rosu speaks of the importance of dreams. Western observation: The client needs close contact with his or her ancestral energy to straighten out temporal difficulties.
127. Irosu'Obara speaks of sharing with others to ensure prosperity and happiness. Western observation: An upcoming business meeting or opportunity will be successful.
128. Obara-Irosu calls for Ifa initiation to ensure blessings.
129. Irosu'Kanran calls for self-assertion. Western observation: The client is usually shy and easily dominated at work.
130. Okanran'Rosu warns of the dangers in irresponsible actions and states that genuine contrition will always be forgiven.
131. Irosu'Eguntan stresses the need for sacrifice and the use of herbal medicine. It calls for restraint from doing evil and dedication to being of good character.
132. Ogunda'Rosu speaks of the end of difficulties and the beginning of good fortune. Western observation: This is a time for a new business, a new relationship, and new success.
133. Irosu'Osa speaks of the significance of sacrifice to overcome obstacles and enemies. Western observation: Others are often plotting to hinder the client.
134. Osa'Rosu speaks of peace and money as the essential ingredients for success and prosperity.
135. Irosu'Ka speaks of peace of mind and sacrifice to avoid sleeping sickness. Western observation: business is more difficult than it should be.More and more effort is necessary to produce minimal results.
136. Ika'Rosu warns against bad character and offers solutions forhaving healthy children.
137. Irosu'turupon warns against bad character and offers solutionsfor having healthy children. Western observation: This odu helps female clients avoid miscarriages.
138. Oturpon'Rosu warns against disharmony in a relationship. Western observation: This odu calls for a more intimate, open relationship with one's mate.
139. Irosu'Tura speaks of things being good for us even if we do not like them. Western observation: The client has a necessary but distasteful but necessary task to perform.
140. Otura'Irosu speaks of honesty as the only way to achieve peace of mind and harmony.
141. Irosu'Ate speaks of Ifa initiation to achieve success and long life. Western observation: The client must follow a more spiritual path.
142. Irete'Rosu speaks of impending and unforseen difficulty. Western observation: The client is often feeling pressure-with no readily identifiable cause. 
143. Irosu'Ose speaks of overcoming difficulties and improving business. Western observation: new avenues or approaches result in success.
144. Ose'Rosu speaks of removing pain and misery. Western observation: Chaotic temporal activity is resulting in unhappiness.
145. Irosu'Fun speaks of protection from disease in order to have good fortune.
146. Ofun'Rosu speaks of sacrifice to remove sorrow for a long happy life.
147. Owonrin'Bara speaks of looking within ourselves to find answers to our problems. Western observation: The client may expect a positive reversal in aneveryday situation.
148. Obara'Wonrin in bad fortune speaks of a person acting irrationally. In good fortune, it speaks of a potential for prosperity. Western observation: The client needs to calm down to achieve success.
149. Owonrin'Konran speaks of the necessity for sacrifice to avoid accusations against the client in bad fortune. It speaks of a time of joy and laughter for the client in good fortune.
150. Okanran'Wonrin speaks of legal problems and their repercussions. Crimes will be punished. Western observation: Often, the client will face legal problems with the government or the IRS, for example.
151. Owonrin'Eguntan speaks of conflicts and difficulties in business and at home. Western observation: Clients are involved in a conflict they cannot win. They must cut their losses.
152. Ogunda'Wonrin speaks of envy, jealousy, and potential conflicts because of the client's success. Western observation: The client has been avoiding a confrontation. The confrontation must take place.
153. Owonrin'Osa speaks of the need for courage in upcoming conflicts and cautions about new relationships. Western observation: The client must beware of a relationship with a needy person.
154. Osa'Wonrin speaks of the futility of running away from problems and matters of potential shame.
155. Owonrin'Ka guarantees success through moderation. In bad fortune, it provides solutions, though sacrifice, for death, and animosity. Western observation: The client must think carefully before acting.
156. Ika'Wonrin speaks of avoiding precipitous actions in order to avoid regrets. Western observation: Emotional upset will cause losses at work.
157. Owonrin'Oturupon speaks of solutions for premature death of children as well as success from an upcoming journey
158. Oturupon'Owonrin speaks of upcoming joy and happiness and the necessity of protecting one's reputation. Western observation: A nonmonogamous relationship can cause trouble.
159. Owonrin'Otura speaks of avoiding conflict with a stronger opponent. Western observation: The client should avoid physical conflict or a desire to get even.
160. Otura'Wonrin speaks of death as part of the cosmic order as well as the need for spiritual and physical awareness. Western observation: The client is not being attentive or loving enough to his children.
161. Owonrin'Irete speaks of not being suspicious or paranoid. Western observation: Introspection regarding the client's goals and behavior is necessary.
162. Irete'Wonrin speaks of retaining a place of honor. Western observation: The client wins. Opponents lose!
163. Owonrin'Se speaks of victory over adversaries. Western observation: The client will often be accused of sexual promiscuity.
164. Ose'Owonrin speaks of sacrifice to repair our strength and protection. Western observation: Unrest in the client's business or career can be balanced by spiritual replenishment.
165. Owonrin'Fu speaks of impending calamity and the supremacy of Ifa. Western observation: The client cannot stay focused on any one thing.
166. Ofun'Wonrin speaks of good deeds bringing their own rewards. Western observation: The client feels unappreciated rather than satisfied.
167. Obara'Kanran speaks of potential disagreement with friends and associates and solutions forcontrolling them. Western observation: The client faces conflict at work.
168. Okanrna'Bara speaks of avoiding premature death and preventing natural disaster from striking our homes. Western observation: This odu indicates astrong possibility of conflict with children and parents.
169. Obara'Ogunda speaks of the need to repair a bad reputation in order to ensure success. Western observation: The client's business is lagging. Spiritual action will improve it.
170. Ogunda'Bara speaks of the necessity of sacrifice to maintain a relationship. Western observation: The client is involved in an intense but futile relationship.
171. Obara'Osa warns of fraudulent customers. Western observation: Emotional unrest leads to practical errors.
172. Osa'Bara speaks of the danger of losing supporters or an individual. Western observation: Osa-Bara shows the client how to rekindle apparently dead flames.
173. Obara'Ka speaks of maintaining power and influence. Western observation: Temporal difficulties can be averted by a new spiritual or emotional experience.
174. Ika'Bara speaks of ways of becoming lovable and attractive to others. Western observation: There is a likelihood of conception. The client should becareful if conception is not desired, grateful if it is.
175. Obara'Turupon speaks of solutions for infertility and miscarriages. Western observation: Sacrifice to Orisa is indicated for conception.
176. Oturupon'Bara speaks of the importance of maintaining health to ensure a long life. Western observation: Children are antagonistic to a new relationship of the parent.
177. Obara'Tura focuses on respect in our home and business life. Western observation: A relationship is causing disharmony.
178. Otura'Bara speaks of the necessity of not violating taboos. Western observation: The client's opinion or decisions will be questioned.
179. Obara'Rete speaks of success and stability if sacrifice is observed. Western observation: The client has good prospects for a new job or business.
180. Irete'Obara speaks of the use of medicine to control difficulties. Western observation: Beware of the con man.
181. Obara'Ose speaks of ways to control natural forces. Western observation: The client needs cleansing to rid himself or herself of negative energy.
182. Ose'Bara speaks of ways to assure a child's future success and warns adults of any upcoming journey. Western observation: There is too much chaos inthe client's everyday activities. He or she needs to step back and reconsider his or her activities.
183. Obara'Ofun speaks of great financial success. Western observation: This is a great time for a new job or business venture.
184. Ofun'Bara speaks of the necessity of protecting our possessions. Western observation: Favorable business conditions can suffer because of an untrustworthy individual.
185. Okanran'Eguntan establishes the creation of the earth.  Western observation: This is an auspicious time for a new business or relationship if it is begun with caution.
186. Ogunda'Kanran speaks of using both spiritual and intellectual capabilities to achieve success. Western observation: It is time for the client to change jobs.
187. Okanran-Sa speaks of knowing when to avoid confrontations. Western observation: Partnership conflicts should be settled peacefully.
188. Osa'Kanran speaks of sacrifice in order to avoid misfortune and ensure tranquillity. Western observation: The client to too thin skinned.
189. Okanran'Ka speaks of courage and honesty to prevent misfortune. Western observation: The client must take a stand for what he or she believes.
190. Ika'Konran speaks of the necessity of sacrifice to avoid the consequences of evil actions. Western observation: An important choice is pending a decision must be made about what is right and good.
191. Okanran'Turupon speaks of Orunmila's knowledge of all things,including the art of traditional healing. Western observation: The client isnot being honest with the babalawo.
192. Oturupon'Konran speaks of avoiding potential troubles with children and enemies. Western observation: The client must be careful in business dealings.
193. Okanran'Otura speaks of conflicts in the family and in other relationships. Western observation: The client faces a conflict with relatives over material possessions.
194. Otura'Konran speaks of avoiding the consequences of bad behavior. Western observation: The client's big mouth has caused potential losses.
195. Okanran'Ate speaks of the need for the client to be initiated. Western observation: The client must develop spiritually.
196. Irete'Okanran speaks of the necessity for caution regarding aconspiracy among one's contemporaries. Western observation: The client must becareful of competition at work.
197. Okanran'Se speaks of the need for spiritual development to avoid distress and tribulations.  Western observation: The client has suffered a financial setback.
198. Ose'Konran speaks of the necessity for a companion in the client's life. Western observation: Unsettled business conditions need emotional balance to reach equilibrium.
199. Okanran'Ofun speaks of the end of trouble and tribulations. Western observation: The client will experience a new relationship or increased intensity in a current one.
200. OFun'Konran warns of the misuse of power. Western observation: Theclient is getting a swollen head.
201. Ogunda'Sa speaks of monetary gain for the truly spiritual. Western observation: Strength at work leads to significant gain.
202. Ose'Gunda speaks of good fortune not taking care of itself without sacrifice. Western observation: There is someone the client must not trust.
203. Ogunda'Kaa speaks of the need for caution and sacrifice in solving money problems. Western observation: The client faces conflict or accusations at work.
204. Ika'Ogunda speaks of sacrifice to Ogun to develop courage for the fearful. Western observation: The client is pretending a problem does not exist.
205. Ogunda'Oturupon speaks of good fortune resulting from improved behavior. Western observation: Difficulties and blockages are dissolved with spiritual development.
206. Oturupon'Eguntan speaks of the present being bad timing for a new child but holds out great promise for the future. Western observation: The client has recently lost a child prior to or shortly after birth. Something waswrong with the child.
207. Ogunda'Tura speaks of a healthy client feeling physically ill as a result of pressure and enemies. Western observation: The client is a hypochondriac.
208. Otura'Eguntan speaks of the need to remove negative energy from the client. Western observation: The client needs cleansing to remove negative spiritual energy.
209. Ogundakete speaks of two important concepts: the role of Elegbara, (Esu) as messenger between human beings and God; and egungun (ancestors) as ahuman being's path to supremacy. Western observation: The client is being dominated by a female.
210. Irete'Eguntan speaks of the necessity for initiation. Western observation: Spiritual development is necessary for peace and prosperity.
211. Eguntan'Se speaks of not punishing people for their physical characteristics. Western observation: The client marches to the beat of his orher own drummer.
212. Ose'Eguntan speaks of impending good fortune. Western observation: Rapid changes in temporal activities will result in profit.
213. Ogunda'Fu speaks of possible arguments over possessions. Western observation: The client is facing some sort of inheritance issues, or children who feel that the parent is not treating them equally.
214. Ofun'Eguntan speaks of the consequences of ignoring moral behavior and sacrifice. Western observation: The client is involved in or desirous of a potentially harmful sexual relationship.
215. Osa'Ka speaks of forecasting a new baby and of protecting one's secrets. Western observation: A comment about a former employee can cause trouble for the client.
216. Ika'Sa warns people not to do anything dishonest. Western observation: Emotional turmoil can lead to harmful decisions.
217. Osa'Oturupon speaks of infertility and of sacrifice for long life. Western observation: This is a time to sacrifice to Ogun for conception.
218. Oturupon'Osa speaks of removing a baby from danger. Western observation: A new child or new responsibilities are creating a temporal upset.
219. Osa'Otura speaks of the gods favoring those who tell the truth. Western observation: The client must confront a problem that he or she has been avoiding.
220. Otura'Sa speaks of the consequences of failing to sacrifice and the reward for those who do sacrifice. Western observation: The client's temper is causing problems.
221. Osa'Rete indicates that the only solution to current problems comes from the deities. Western observation: the client is receiving no practical ormoral support from his or her mate.
222. Irete'Sa speaks of prevention being better than a cure. Western observation: The client may face competition in a love relationship.
223. Osa'Se warns against false accusations. Western observation: The client may face sudden changes in his or her work or job.
224. Ose'Sa speaks of conciliation rather than confrontation to settle disputes. Western observation: The client is in a dispute often with the government. Settlement is in order.
225. Osa'Fu speaks of understanding and obeying taboos. Westernobservation: Chaos is everyday activities is warping the client's judgment.
226. Ofun'Sa speaks of a person's whole life turning upside down, with spiritual redemption being the only solution. Western observation: While everything looks good at present, disaster lies ahead.
227. Ika'Oturupon speaks of the need for a spiritual relationship. Western observation: The client has been resisting a relationship that would bebeneficial.
228. Oturupon'Ka speaks of great prosperity and healing. Western observation: The client is worried about illness.
229. Ika'Otura speaks of the end of trouble and the beginning of good fortune. Western observation: The client's luck is about to turn from bad togood.
230. Otura'Ka speaks of dispersing our enemies to ensure our prosperity. Western observation: The client needs to be spiritually cleansed of negative energy.
231. Ida'Irete speaks of acting independently to ensure prosperity. Western observation: A new job or business must not involve a partnership.
232. Irete'Da speaks of prominence and success. Western observation: The client will triumph in a current dispute.
233. Ida'Se speaks of the need to reverse poverty and misfortune. Western observation: Emotional changes are causing negative material results.
234. Ose'Ka speaks of control over difficulties and victory over enemies. Western observation: There is a possible legal threat to the client from pastassociations or dealings.
235. Ika'Fu speaks of the need to give in order to receive. Western observation: The client fears being emotionally open.
236. Ofun'Ka speaks of the end of financial difficulties and the beginning of prominence. Western observation: The client's job or career is about toimprove significantly.
237. Oturupon'Tura establishes the order and significance of the days of the week. Western observation: The client should plan actions according to favorable days in the odus.
238. Otura'Tutu speaks of the necessity of completing the entire sacrifice. Western observation: The client may have substance-abuse problems.
239. Oturupon'Rete speaks of the need for sacrifice in order to avoid illness and enemies. Western observation: The client needs to use strategy andplanning to succeed.
240. Irete'Tutu speaks of the need to obey authority and to sacrifice in order to have many children. Western observation: The client's word or ideas, will be taken seriously.
241. Oturupon'Se speaks of the need for sacrifice to have a pleasant life. Western observation: The client needs to relax and experience positive, childlike pleasures.
242. Ose'Oturupon speaks of a relationship that is difficult even though itmay be fruitful. Western observation: The client is involved in a no-win relationship.
243. Oturupon'Fun speaks of the need to share our good fortune. Western observation: The client's life is filled with good fortune, monetarily and emotionally.
244. Ofun'Oturupon speaks of fertility and of the need for sacrifice to avoid quarrels in relationships. Western observation: Children will bring joy, but a relationship needs help.
245. Otura'Rete speaks of reaffirmation of our spirituality. Western observation: Moderation is difficult for the client.
246. Irete'Tura speaks of the incantation necessary to avoid near-death situations. Western observation: This odu offers a solution for illness.
247. Otura'Se speaks of upcoming danger at home or in business. Western observation: Emotional changes must be dealt with carefully.
248. Osetura speaks of the incarnation of Esu-Odara. Western observation: Nothing happens without Esu's help.
249. Otura'Fun speaks of impending good fortune if the client avoids wicked acts. Western observation: The client must resist an adulterous relationship.
250. Ofun'Tura speaks of the need for sacrifice to stabilize a relationship. Western observation: Marriage with the client's current partner is appropriate and beneficial.
251. Irete'Se speaks of the need for sacrifice to avoid witchcraft and all other negative energies. Western observation: The client faces a partnership or governmental conflict.
252. Ose'Bi'Irete'Sile'Aje speaks of good fortune for money, respect, and influence. Western observation: The client should proceed confidently with new prospects and relationships.
253. Irete'Ofun speaks of Ifa's popularity and success. Western observation: The client's business or job will improve.
254. Ofun'Rete speaks of the need for sacrifice in order to obtain respect and protection. Western observation: The client needs to break out of a current situation and be more confident.
255. Ose'Fu speaks of Ifa's ability to solve all problems. Western observation: Whatever the client's difficulty, there is a solution.
256. Ofun'Se speaks of revenge and warns about possible losses. Western observation: Those who are trying to impede the client's progress will suffer.
